NinjaUserGuide.md, before:


# NinjaRobotV3 User Guide

(Sections 1-2.4 remain the same)

### 2.5. `pi0ninja_v3` - Robot Control Hub

(Intro remains the same)

#### Web Control Interface

(Intro remains the same)

#### Ninja AI Agent

The web interface features a conversational AI agent powered by Google's Gemini model. You can talk to the robot in natural language, and it will interpret your intent, perform actions, and answer questions.

**Capabilities:**
- **Live Voice Chat**: Speak to the robot in real-time.
- **Web Search**: The agent can search the internet to answer questions.

**1. Activating the AI Agent**

(This section remains the same)

**2. Interacting with the Agent**

Once the key is set, the chat interface will appear.

-   **Voice Input (Recommended)**:
    - Click the **microphone (🎤) button** to start recording. It will turn red.
    - Speak your command.
    - Click the **microphone (🎤) button** again to stop. It will turn yellow while the robot thinks.
    - The robot will then respond and perform the action.

-   **Text Input**: You can always type a command in the chat box and press Enter or click Send. This works over both HTTP and HTTPS.

-   **System Log**: This box shows the AI's "thought process," including when it performs a web search or what physical actions it decides to take.

### 3. Enabling Voice Input with HTTPS (Automated with ngrok)

For security reasons, web browsers only allow microphone access on pages loaded over a secure `https://` connection. To make this seamless, the NinjaRobot web server automatically uses a free tool called `ngrok` to create a secure tunnel for you.

**Step 1: First-Time Setup**

The very first time you use the robot, you need to link `ngrok` to a free account. You only have to do this once.

1.  **Sign Up**: Go to the [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/signup) and create a free account.
2.  **Add Authtoken**: Copy the authtoken from your ngrok dashboard and run this command in the `NinjaRobotV3` directory (replace `<YOUR_AUTHTOKEN>` with your actual token):
    ```bash
    ./ngrok config add-authtoken <YOUR_AUTHTOKEN>
    ```

**Step 2: Start the Server and Get the URL**

That's it for setup! Now, just start the server.

1.  **Run the NinjaRobot Web Server**:
    ```bash
    uv run web-server
    ```
2.  **Find Your HTTPS URL**: When the server starts, it will automatically launch `ngrok`. Look for a line in the terminal output like this:
    ```
    - For Voice (HTTPS): https://<random-string>.ngrok-free.app
    ```

Use this `https://` URL in your browser to access the robot's control panel. The microphone button for voice input will now be enabled and ready to use.

(Example Interactions remain the same)

#### Other Interactive Utilities

(Other utility sections remain the same)

Commit message:

Remove voice input and live streaming AI function

NinjaUserGuide.md, after:

# NinjaRobotV3 User Guide

(Sections 1-2.4 remain the same)

### 2.5. `pi0ninja_v3` - Robot Control Hub

(Intro remains the same)

#### Web Control Interface

(Intro remains the same)

#### Ninja AI Agent

The web interface features a conversational AI agent powered by Google's Gemini model. You can type commands in natural language, and it will interpret your intent, perform actions, and answer questions.

**Capabilities:**
- **Text-Based Chat**: Type commands to the robot in real-time.
- **Web Search**: The agent can search the internet to answer questions.

**1. Activating the AI Agent**

(This section remains the same)

**2. Interacting with the Agent**

Once the key is set, the chat interface will appear.

-   **Text Input**: Type a command in the chat box and press Enter or click the "Send" button.

-   **System Log**: This box shows the AI's "thought process," including when it performs a web search or what physical actions it decides to take.

### 3. Accessing the Robot Remotely (Optional)

The web server automatically uses a tool called `ngrok` to create a secure, public URL for your robot's control panel. This is useful if you want to control your robot from a device that is not on the same local network.

**Step 1: First-Time Setup (One-Time Only)**

To enable this feature, you need to link `ngrok` to a free account.

1.  **Sign Up**: Go to the [ngrok dashboard](https://dashboard.ngrok.com/signup) and create a free account.
2.  **Add Authtoken**: Copy the authtoken from your ngrok dashboard and run this command in the `NinjaRobotV3` directory (replace `<YOUR_AUTHTOKEN>` with your actual token):
    ```bash
    ./ngrok config add-authtoken <YOUR_AUTHTOKEN>
    ```

**Step 2: Start the Server and Get the URL**

Now, just start the server as usual.

1.  **Run the NinjaRobot Web Server**:
    ```bash
    uv run web-server
    ```
2.  **Find Your Public URL**: When the server starts, look for a line in the terminal output like this:
    ```
    - Secure Public URL (HTTPS): https://<random-string>.ngrok-free.app
    ```

You can use this `https://` URL in any browser to access the robot's control panel from anywhere.

(Example Interactions remain the same)

#### Other Interactive Utilities

(Other utility sections remain the same)
