README.md, before:

# NinjaRobot Development Log

This file tracks the development progress of the NinjaRobot project.

## Environment Setup

To ensure all robot components and drivers are correctly installed and accessible, run the following command from the root directory (`NinjaRobotV3/`):

```bash
uv pip install -e ./pi0ninja_v3 -e ./piservo0 -e ./pi0disp -e ./vl53l0x_pigpio -e ./pi0buzzer
```

This installs all necessary local packages in editable mode.

## Development History

### 2025-09-19: Simultaneous Sound and Animation

- **Integrated Emotions:** Enhanced `main_robot_control.py` to play emotion-specific sounds and display facial animations simultaneously. 
- **Concurrent Playback:** Utilized Python's `threading` library to run the sound and animation loops in parallel, creating a more immersive and expressive robot experience.

### 2025-09-19: Interactive Utilities & Documentation

- **Robot Sound Player:** Created `robot_sound.py`, a new utility in the `pi0ninja_v3` library to play sounds for 14 robot emotions. It features an interactive menu for selecting and playing sounds.
- **Distance Detector:** Developed `detect_distance.py`, a tool for measuring distance with the VL53L0X sensor. It provides an interactive choice between a timed mode (set number of readings) and a continuous 5Hz mode.
- **Buzzer Enhancements:** Updated the `pi0buzzer` library with a corrected 3-octave note map and added a "Happy Birthday" song that plays automatically when the `playmusic` command is run.
- **Bug Fixes & Refinements:** Corrected a file path issue in the sound player to properly locate `buzzer.json`. Refactored the distance detector's command-line interface to be fully interactive, improving usability.
- **Comprehensive Documentation:** Updated `NinjaUserGuide.md` with instructions for the new interactive tools and `NinjaDevGuide.md` with detailed technical explanations of their architecture. Consolidated today's progress into this single log entry.

### 2025-09-18: Documentation Overhaul

- **New Utility:** Created the `show_faces.py` script, an interactive tool for previewing all facial expressions on the robot's display.
- **Persistent Idle State:** The tool features a continuous, non-blocking idle animation with random blinks, which serves as the robot's default state.
- **Interactive Menu:** Users can press `m` to pause the idle animation and open a menu to select and display other expressions for a fixed duration.
- **Robust Architecture:** Refactored the script to use a non-blocking main loop for the idle state and a standard blocking menu for selection. This avoids using `KeyboardInterrupt` for control flow and prevents display corruption bugs.

### 2025-09-18: Documentation Overhaul

- **Comprehensive User Guide:** Completely rewrote the `Servo Movement Recorder` section in `NinjaUserGuide.md`. The new guide provides detailed, user-friendly instructions for all the latest features, including the non-destructive modification workflow, looping/interruptible playback, and improved recording process.
- **Developer Guide Update:** Added a new section to `NinjaRobot_DevGuide.md` describing the `movement_recorder` tool, its purpose as a high-level utility, and its role as an integration example for the `piservo0` library.
- **Centralized Logging:** Consolidated all recent feature enhancements under a new development log entry to reflect the current state of the project accurately.


### 2025-09-12: Facial Expression System

- **Project Initialization:** Created the `pi0ninja_v3` library to house the robot's core logic and established this `README.md` for progress tracking.

- **Animation Library:** Developed `facial_expressions.py`, a library for generating 14 unique, programmatically drawn and animated facial expressions (e.g., Idle, Happy, Sad).

- **Integration & Testing:** Integrated the animation library into the main control script (`main_robot_control.py`) to cycle through all expressions on startup.

- **Dependency Management:** Resolved `ModuleNotFoundError` and `TOML` configuration errors by correctly installing all local driver packages (`pi0disp`, `piservo0`, etc.) into the project's virtual environment.

- **Visual Refinement & Bug Fixes:** Iteratively improved the facial animations by:
    - Centering and scaling all expressions.
    - Unifying the visual style based on a design reference (`angry.jpg`).
    - Increasing the animation framerate to ~60 FPS.
    - Correcting visual bugs where features were overlapping or disappearing.

### 2025-09-17: Servo Movement Recorder

- **Movement Recording Tool:** Developed `movement_recorder.py`, a CLI tool for creating, modifying, and deleting named servo movement sequences.
- **Core Functionality:**
    - **Record:** Interactively command servos to specific angles (`-90` to `90`, plus `X` for max, `M` for min, `C` for center) and save the sequence of movements. The final movement is now automatically saved when you finish recording. Supports speed control (`S_` for slow).
    - **Modify:** A safe, non-destructive editor for fine-tuning movement sequences.
        - **Transactional Editing:** Changes are made to a temporary copy. The original movement is not altered unless you explicitly save.
        - **Graceful Interruption:** Exiting with `Ctrl+C` will safely discard all changes.
        - **Granular Control:** You can edit, insert, or delete specific steps within the sequence.
        - **Preview:** Play back the modified sequence before saving to ensure it's correct.
    - **Clear:** Delete a saved movement sequence.
- **Servo Abstraction:** Implemented a `ServoController` class to manage multiple servos using the `piservo0` library, loading configurations from `servo.json`.
- **Data Persistence:** All named movement sequences are saved to `servo_movement.json` in the project root.
- **Usage:** The tool can be run directly from the command line:
  ```bash
  uv run python -m pi0ninja_v3.movement_recorder
  ```
- **Recording Optimization:** Enhanced the recording process to automatically capture the state of all servos for every step. If a servo is not explicitly commanded, its previous position is automatically carried over, ensuring every step in the saved sequence is a complete keyframe.
- **Execution with Looping and Interruption:**
    - When executing a movement, you can now specify a number of times to loop the sequence or enter 'loop' for infinite playback.
    - Movement playback can be interrupted at any time by pressing the `Enter` or `Esc` key.

Commit message:

Deploy webserver function with FastAPI

README.md, after:

# NinjaRobot Development Log

This file tracks the development progress of the NinjaRobot project.

## Environment Setup

To ensure all robot components and drivers are correctly installed and accessible, run the following command from the root directory (`NinjaRobotV3/`):

```bash
uv pip install -e ./pi0ninja_v3 -e ./piservo0 -e ./pi0disp -e ./vl53l0x_pigpio -e ./pi0buzzer
```

This installs all necessary local packages in editable mode.

## Development History

### 2025-09-20: Web Server Usability

- **Enhanced Startup Message**: Improved the web server's startup sequence to automatically detect and display both the hostname and IP address connection URLs, making it easier for users to connect to the robot's control panel.

### 2025-09-20: Servo Driver Bug Fix

- **Problem**: Fixed a `pigpio.error: 'GPIO is not in use for servo pulses'` that occurred when executing a servo movement from the web interface for the first time.
- **Root Cause**: The error was caused by the system trying to read the current position of a servo that had not yet been activated, resulting in an invalid state.
- **Solution**: Made the underlying `piservo0` driver more robust. The `get_pulse()` method was updated to catch the error and return a default center value, allowing movements to start correctly from a "cold" state.

### 2025-09-20: Web Control Interface

- **Web Server Implementation**: Developed a web server using FastAPI within the `pi0ninja_v3` library to provide remote control of the robot over a local Wi-Fi network.
- **Backend API**: Created a comprehensive RESTful API to expose all core robot functionalities, including servo movements, facial expressions, sounds, and distance sensor readings.
- **Hardware Lifecycle Management**: Implemented a robust lifecycle manager using FastAPI's `lifespan` feature to ensure all hardware components are initialized and shut down gracefully.
- **Web-Based UI**: Built a clean, responsive user interface with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that acts as a control panel. The UI is served directly from the FastAPI backend.
- **Documentation**: Updated the `NinjaUserGuide.md` and `NinjaDevGuide.md` with detailed instructions and technical specifications for the new web server. Added a `web-server` command to `pyproject.toml` for easy launching.
- **Real-Time Sensor Data**: Implemented a WebSocket endpoint to stream distance sensor data to the web interface in real-time, replacing the previous polling mechanism.

### 2025-09-19: Simultaneous Sound and Animation

- **Integrated Emotions:** Enhanced `main_robot_control.py` to play emotion-specific sounds and display facial animations simultaneously. 
- **Concurrent Playback:** Utilized Python's `threading` library to run the sound and animation loops in parallel, creating a more immersive and expressive robot experience.

### 2025-09-19: Interactive Utilities & Documentation

- **Robot Sound Player:** Created `robot_sound.py`, a new utility in the `pi0ninja_v3` library to play sounds for 14 robot emotions. It features an interactive menu for selecting and playing sounds.
- **Distance Detector:** Developed `detect_distance.py`, a tool for measuring distance with the VL53L0X sensor. It provides an interactive choice between a timed mode (set number of readings) and a continuous 5Hz mode.
- **Buzzer Enhancements:** Updated the `pi0buzzer` library with a corrected 3-octave note map and added a "Happy Birthday" song that plays automatically when the `playmusic` command is run.
- **Bug Fixes & Refinements:** Corrected a file path issue in the sound player to properly locate `buzzer.json`. Refactored the distance detector's command-line interface to be fully interactive, improving usability.
- **Comprehensive Documentation:** Updated `NinjaUserGuide.md` with instructions for the new interactive tools and `NinjaDevGuide.md` with detailed technical explanations of their architecture. Consolidated today's progress into this single log entry.

### 2025-09-18: Documentation Overhaul

- **New Utility:** Created the `show_faces.py` script, an interactive tool for previewing all facial expressions on the robot's display.
- **Persistent Idle State:** The tool features a continuous, non-blocking idle animation with random blinks, which serves as the robot's default state.
- **Interactive Menu:** Users can press `m` to pause the idle animation and open a menu to select and display other expressions for a fixed duration.
- **Robust Architecture:** Refactored the script to use a non-blocking main loop for the idle state and a standard blocking menu for selection. This avoids using `KeyboardInterrupt` for control flow and prevents display corruption bugs.

### 2025-09-18: Documentation Overhaul

- **Comprehensive User Guide:** Completely rewrote the `Servo Movement Recorder` section in `NinjaUserGuide.md`. The new guide provides detailed, user-friendly instructions for all the latest features, including the non-destructive modification workflow, looping/interruptible playback, and improved recording process.
- **Developer Guide Update:** Added a new section to `NinjaRobot_DevGuide.md` describing the `movement_recorder` tool, its purpose as a high-level utility, and its role as an integration example for the `piservo0` library.
- **Centralized Logging:** Consolidated all recent feature enhancements under a new development log entry to reflect the current state of the project accurately.


### 2025-09-12: Facial Expression System

- **Project Initialization:** Created the `pi0ninja_v3` library to house the robot's core logic and established this `README.md` for progress tracking.

- **Animation Library:** Developed `facial_expressions.py`, a library for generating 14 unique, programmatically drawn and animated facial expressions (e.g., Idle, Happy, Sad).

- **Integration & Testing:** Integrated the animation library into the main control script (`main_robot_control.py`) to cycle through all expressions on startup.

- **Dependency Management:** Resolved `ModuleNotFoundError` and `TOML` configuration errors by correctly installing all local driver packages (`pi0disp`, `piservo0`, etc.) into the project's virtual environment.

- **Visual Refinement & Bug Fixes:** Iteratively improved the facial animations by:
    - Centering and scaling all expressions.
    - Unifying the visual style based on a design reference (`angry.jpg`).
    - Increasing the animation framerate to ~60 FPS.
    - Correcting visual bugs where features were overlapping or disappearing.

### 2025-09-17: Servo Movement Recorder

- **Movement Recording Tool:** Developed `movement_recorder.py`, a CLI tool for creating, modifying, and deleting named servo movement sequences.
- **Core Functionality:**
    - **Record:** Interactively command servos to specific angles (`-90` to `90`, plus `X` for max, `M` for min, `C` for center) and save the sequence of movements. The final movement is now automatically saved when you finish recording. Supports speed control (`S_` for slow).
    - **Modify:** A safe, non-destructive editor for fine-tuning movement sequences.
        - **Transactional Editing:** Changes are made to a temporary copy. The original movement is not altered unless you explicitly save.
        - **Graceful Interruption:** Exiting with `Ctrl+C` will safely discard all changes.
        - **Granular Control:** You can edit, insert, or delete specific steps within the sequence.
        - **Preview:** Play back the modified sequence before saving to ensure it's correct.
    - **Clear:** Delete a saved movement sequence.
- **Servo Abstraction:** Implemented a `ServoController` class to manage multiple servos using the `piservo0` library, loading configurations from `servo.json`.
- **Data Persistence:** All named movement sequences are saved to `servo_movement.json` in the project root.
- **Usage:** The tool can be run directly from the command line:
  ```bash
  uv run python -m pi0ninja_v3.movement_recorder
  ```
- **Recording Optimization:** Enhanced the recording process to automatically capture the state of all servos for every step. If a servo is not explicitly commanded, its previous position is automatically carried over, ensuring every step in the saved sequence is a complete keyframe.
- **Execution with Looping and Interruption:**
    - When executing a movement, you can now specify a number of times to loop the sequence or enter 'loop' for infinite playback.
    - Movement playback can be interrupted at any time by pressing the `Enter` or `Esc` key.
